BLIND SQL INJECTION VULNERABILITY ASSESSMENT REPORT

Target Application: DVWA (Damn Vulnerable Web Application)
Vulnerability Type: Blind SQL Injection
Security Level:
Severity: Critical
Testing Environment: Educational Lab

INTRODUCTION

This report documents the exploitation of a Blind SQL Injection vulnerability in DVWA at the Low security level.

Blind SQL Injection occurs when an application is vulnerable to SQL injection but does not directly display database query results or error messages. Instead, attackers infer information by analyzing differences in application behavior, such as response messages or page content.

The assessment demonstrates how attackers can extract sensitive database information using Boolean-based conditions.

OBJECTIVE

The objective of this assessment was to:

Identify Blind SQL Injection vulnerabilities
Analyze application response behavior
Extract information using Boolean-based logic
Demonstrate risks associated with insecure database queries
TOOLS USED
Web Browser
DVWA
SQL Injection Payloads
Boolean-Based SQL Queries
VULNERABILITY DESCRIPTION

The DVWA Blind SQL Injection module at the Low security level processes user input directly within SQL queries without proper sanitization or parameterized statements.

Although database results are not displayed directly, the application behavior changes depending on whether injected conditions evaluate as TRUE or FALSE.

This allows attackers to infer sensitive database information character by character.

EXPLOITATION PROCESS

Step 1: Access the Blind SQL Injection Module

The DVWA Blind SQL Injection page was opened from the vulnerabilities menu.

The application provided a numeric ID lookup field.

Step 2: Test Normal Functionality

A valid ID was entered:

1

The application returned a message similar to:

User ID exists in the database.

Step 3: Test Invalid Input

An invalid ID was entered:

999

The application returned:

User ID is MISSING from the database.

This confirmed that application responses differed based on query results.

TESTING FOR SQL INJECTION

A Boolean-based SQL Injection payload was tested.

Payload Used:

1' OR 1=1#

OBSERVED RESULT

The application returned:

User ID exists in the database.

The injected condition:

OR 1=1

always evaluates as TRUE, confirming that SQL Injection was possible.

FALSE CONDITION TEST

A false Boolean condition was tested.

Payload Used:

1' AND 1=2#

OBSERVED RESULT

The application returned:

User ID is MISSING from the database.

This demonstrated that application behavior changed depending on the truth value of injected SQL conditions.

BOOLEAN-BASED DATA EXTRACTION

Character-by-character extraction was performed using SQL substring functions.

Example Payload:

1' AND SUBSTRING(user,1,1)='a'#

EXTRACTION LOGIC

The payload checks whether:

The first character of the username
For the current database record
Matches the specified character

If TRUE:
The application displays:

User ID exists in the database.

If FALSE:
The application displays:

User ID is MISSING from the database.

ENUMERATION PROCESS

By iterating through different characters and positions, attackers can gradually extract:

Usernames
Password hashes
Database names
Table names
Column names

The process can be repeated character-by-character until complete information is recovered.

ROOT CAUSE

The vulnerability exists because user input is directly incorporated into SQL queries without proper security protections.

Missing protections include:

Parameterized queries
Prepared statements
Input validation
Query sanitization
Output handling protections

The application trusts user-controlled input within database operations.

SECURITY IMPACT

An attacker exploiting this vulnerability may be able to:

Extract sensitive database information
Enumerate database structure
Retrieve usernames and password hashes
Bypass authentication
Gain unauthorized access
Fully compromise the database

Although query results are not displayed directly, attackers can still retrieve data using application behavior analysis.

RECOMMENDATIONS

The following mitigations are recommended:

Use Parameterized Queries

Implement prepared statements instead of directly concatenating user input into SQL queries.

Validate User Input

Restrict input to expected data types and formats.

Use Stored Procedures

Limit direct SQL query manipulation risks.

Hide Application Behavior Differences

Avoid returning distinguishable responses for valid and invalid queries.

Apply Least Privilege

Restrict database account permissions used by the application.

Use Web Application Firewalls (WAF)

Detect and block malicious SQL injection patterns.

Perform Security Testing

Conduct regular penetration testing and vulnerability assessments.

CONCLUSION

The assessment confirmed that the DVWA application at the Low security level is vulnerable to Blind SQL Injection attacks.

Because the application directly processes unsanitized user input within SQL queries and exposes behavioral differences in responses, attackers can infer and extract sensitive database information through Boolean-based techniques.
